+++ 
date = "2022-02-14"
title = "1143. Longest Common Subsequence"
tags = ["dp"]
+++
[Longest Common Subsequence - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-subsequence/)

Given two strings text1 and text2, return __the length of their longest common subsequence. __If there is no common subsequence, return 0.
A subsequence of a string is a new string generated from the original string with some characters (can be none) deleted without changing the relative order of the remaining characters.

	For example, "ace" is a subsequence of "abcde".A common subsequence of two strings is a subsequence that is common to both strings.
 
Example 1:
Input: text1 = "abcde", text2 = "ace" Output: 3 Explanation: The longest common subsequence is "ace" and its length is 3. 
Example 2:
Input: text1 = "abc", text2 = "abc" Output: 3 Explanation: The longest common subsequence is "abc" and its length is 3. 
Example 3:
Input: text1 = "abc", text2 = "def" Output: 0 Explanation: There is no such common subsequence, so the result is 0. 
 
Constraints:

	1 <= text1.length, text2.length <= 1000
	text1 and text2 consist of only lowercase English characters.

---
- code
```py
from functools import lru_cache
class Solution:
    def longestCommonSubsequence(self, text1: str, text2: str) -> int:
        
        @lru_cache(maxsize=None)
        def memo_solve(p1, p2):
            
            # Base case: If either string is now empty, we can't match
            # up anymore characters.
            if p1 == len(text1) or p2 == len(text2):
                return 0
            
            # Recursive case 1.
            if text1[p1] == text2[p2]:
                return 1 + memo_solve(p1 + 1, p2 + 1)
            
            # Recursive case 2.
            else:
                return max(memo_solve(p1, p2 + 1), memo_solve(p1 + 1, p2))
            
        return memo_solve(0, 0)
```
- code  can also for col, for row
```py
class Solution:
    def longestCommonSubsequence(self, text1: str, text2: str) -> int:
        dp = [[0] * (len(text1) + 1) for _ in range(len(text2) + 1)]
        for row in reversed(range(len(text2))):
            for col in reversed(range(len(text1))):
                if text1[col] == text2[row]:
                    dp[row][col] = 1 + dp[row+1][col+1]
                else:
                    dp[row][col] = max(dp[row+1][col], dp[row][col+1])
        return dp[0][0]
```
- code
```py
class Solution:
    def longestCommonSubsequence(self, text1: str, text2: str) -> int:
        
        # If text1 doesn't reference the shortest string, swap them.
        if len(text2) < len(text1):
            text1, text2 = text2, text1
        
        
        # The previous and current column starts with all 0's and like 
        # before is 1 more than the length of the first word.
        previous = [0] * (len(text1) + 1)
        current = [0] * (len(text1) + 1)
        
        # Iterate up each column, starting from the last one.
        for col in reversed(range(len(text2))):
            for row in reversed(range(len(text1))):
                if text2[col] == text1[row]:
                    current[row] = 1 + previous[row + 1]
                else:
                    current[row] = max(previous[row], current[row + 1])
            # The current column becomes the previous one, and vice versa.
            previous, current = current, previous
        
        # The original problem's answer is in previous[0]. Return it.
        return previous[0]
```
