+++ 
date = "2024-01-29"
title = "30. Substring with Concatenation of All Words"
tags = ["string","slidingwindow"]
+++

You are given a string s and an array of strings words. All the strings of words are of **the same length**.
A **concatenated substring** in s is a substring that contains all the strings of any permutation of words concatenated.
 	
	For example, if words = ["ab","cd","ef"], then "abcdef", "abefcd", "cdabef", "cdefab", "efabcd", and "efcdab" are all concatenated strings. "acdbef" is not a concatenated substring because it is not the concatenation of any permutation of words.Return __the starting indices of all the concatenated substrings in __s. You can return the answer in **any order**.
 
**Example 1:**
**Input:** s = "barfoothefoobarman", words = ["foo","bar"] **Output:** [0,9] **Explanation:** Since words.length == 2 and words[i].length == 3, the concatenated substring has to be of length 6. The substring starting at 0 is "barfoo". It is the concatenation of ["bar","foo"] which is a permutation of words. The substring starting at 9 is "foobar". It is the concatenation of ["foo","bar"] which is a permutation of words. The output order does not matter. Returning [9,0] is fine too. 
**Example 2:**
**Input:** s = "wordgoodgoodgoodbestword", words = ["word","good","best","word"] **Output:** [] **Explanation:** Since words.length == 4 and words[i].length == 4, the concatenated substring has to be of length 16. There is no substring of length 16 in s that is equal to the concatenation of any permutation of words. We return an empty array. 
**Example 3:**
**Input:** s = "barfoofoobarthefoobarman", words = ["bar","foo","the"] **Output:** [6,9,12] **Explanation:** Since words.length == 3 and words[i].length == 3, the concatenated substring has to be of length 9. The substring starting at 6 is "foobarthe". It is the concatenation of ["foo","bar","the"] which is a permutation of words. The substring starting at 9 is "barthefoo". It is the concatenation of ["bar","the","foo"] which is a permutation of words. The substring starting at 12 is "thefoobar". It is the concatenation of ["the","foo","bar"] which is a permutation of words. 
 
**Constraints:**
 	
	1 <= s.length <= 104 	
	1 <= words.length <= 5000 	
	1 <= words[i].length <= 30 	
	s and words[i] consist of lowercase English letters.
---
- code
```java
class Solution {
    private HashMap<String, Integer> wordCount = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
    private int n;
    private int wordLength;
    private int substringSize;
    private int k;
    
    private void slidingWindow(int left, String s, List<Integer> answer) {
        HashMap<String, Integer> wordsFound = new HashMap<>();
        int wordsUsed = 0;
        boolean excessWord = false;
        
        // Do the same iteration pattern as the previous approach - iterate
        // word_length at a time, and at each iteration we focus on one word
        for (int right = left; right <= n - wordLength; right += wordLength) {
            
            String sub = s.substring(right, right + wordLength);
            if (!wordCount.containsKey(sub)) {
                // Mismatched word - reset the window
                wordsFound.clear();
                wordsUsed = 0;
                excessWord = false;
                left = right + wordLength;
            } else {
                // If we reached max window size or have an excess word
                while (right - left == substringSize || excessWord) {
                    String leftmostWord = s.substring(left, left + wordLength);
                    left += wordLength;
                    wordsFound.put(leftmostWord, wordsFound.get(leftmostWord) - 1);

                    if (wordsFound.get(leftmostWord) >= wordCount.get(leftmostWord)) {
                        // This word was an excess word
                        excessWord = false;
                    } else {
                        // Otherwise we actually needed it
                        wordsUsed--;
                    }
                }
                
                // Keep track of how many times this word occurs in the window
                wordsFound.put(sub, wordsFound.getOrDefault(sub, 0) + 1);
                if (wordsFound.get(sub) <= wordCount.get(sub)) {
                    wordsUsed++;
                } else {
                    // Found too many instances already
                    excessWord = true;
                }
                
                if (wordsUsed == k && !excessWord) {
                    // Found a valid substring
                    answer.add(left);
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    public List<Integer> findSubstring(String s, String[] words) {
        n = s.length();
        k = words.length;
        wordLength = words[0].length();
        substringSize = wordLength * k;
        
        for (String word : words) {
            wordCount.put(word, wordCount.getOrDefault(word, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        List<Integer> answer = new ArrayList<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < wordLength; i++) {
            slidingWindow(i, s, answer);
        }
        
        return answer;
    }
}
```
- code
```java
class Solution {
    private HashMap<String, Integer> wordCount = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
    private int wordLength;
    private int substringSize;
    private int k;
    
    private boolean check(int i, String s) {
        // Copy the original dictionary to use for this index
        HashMap<String, Integer> remaining = new HashMap<>(wordCount);
        int wordsUsed = 0;
        
        // Each iteration will check for a match in words
        for (int j = i; j < i + substringSize; j += wordLength) {
            String sub = s.substring(j, j + wordLength);
            if (remaining.getOrDefault(sub, 0) != 0) {
                remaining.put(sub, remaining.get(sub) - 1);
                wordsUsed++;
            } else {
                break;
            }
        }
        
        return wordsUsed == k;
    }
    
    public List<Integer> findSubstring(String s, String[] words) {
        int n = s.length();
        k = words.length;
        wordLength = words[0].length();
        substringSize = wordLength * k;
        
        for (String word : words) {
            wordCount.put(word, wordCount.getOrDefault(word, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        List<Integer> answer = new ArrayList<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < n - substringSize + 1; i++) {
            if (check(i, s)) {
                answer.add(i);
            }
        }
        
        return answer;
    }
}
```
- code
```java
class Solution {
    public List<Integer> findSubstring(String s, String[] words) {
        int subLen = words[0].length() * words.length;
        List<Integer> res = new ArrayList<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length() - subLen + 1; i++){
            if (match(s.substring(i, i + subLen),  new LinkedList<String>(Arrays.asList(words)))) res.add(i);
        }
        return res;
    }

    public boolean match(String s, List<String> words){
        int count = words.size();
        int wordLen = words.get(0).length();
        for (int i = 0; i < count; i++){
            String word = s.substring(i * wordLen, (i+1) * wordLen);
            if (!words.contains(word)){
                return false;
            }else{
                words.remove(word);
            }
        }
        return words.size() == 0;
    }
}
```
