+++ 
date = "2022-01-14"
title = "740. Delete and Earn "
tags = ["dp"]
+++
[Delete and Earn - LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-and-earn/)

You are given an integer array nums. You want to maximize the number of points you get by performing the following operation any number of times:

Pick any nums[i] and delete it to earn nums[i] points. Afterwards, you must delete every element equal to nums[i] - 1 and every element equal to nums[i] + 1.Return __the maximum number of points you can earn by applying the above operation some number of times__.
 
Example 1:
Input: nums = [3,4,2] Output: 6 Explanation: You can perform the following operations: - Delete 4 to earn 4 points. Consequently, 3 is also deleted. nums = [2]. - Delete 2 to earn 2 points. nums = []. You earn a total of 6 points. 

Example 2:
Input: nums = [2,2,3,3,3,4] Output: 9 Explanation: You can perform the following operations: - Delete a 3 to earn 3 points. All 2's and 4's are also deleted. nums = [3,3]. - Delete a 3 again to earn 3 points. nums = [3]. - Delete a 3 once more to earn 3 points. nums = []. You earn a total of 9 points.
 
Constraints:

	1 <= nums.length <= 2 * 104
	1 <= nums[i] <= 104

---
- code TLE
```py
class Solution:
    def deleteAndEarn(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        
        count = Counter(nums)
        uniq = list(count.keys())
        # @lru_cache  can't hash a list
        def dfs(nums):
            if not nums:
                return 0
            res = 0
            for v in nums:
                res = max(res, v * count[v] + dfs(list(filter(lambda x: x != v - 1 and x!= v and x != v + 1, nums))))
            return res
        
        return dfs(uniq)

```
- code
```py
class Solution:
    def deleteAndEarn(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        count = Counter(nums) # value, count
        uniq = sorted(count) # 2,3,4 values
        dp = [0] * len(count)        
        dp[0] = uniq[0] * count[uniq[0]]
        if len(uniq) == 1: return dp[0]
        
        if uniq[1] == uniq[0] + 1:
            dp[1] = max(dp[0], uniq[1] * count[uniq[1]])
        else: dp[1] = dp[0] + uniq[1] * count[uniq[1]]
        
        for i in range(2, len(uniq)):
            if uniq[i] == uniq[i-1] + 1:
                dp[i] = max(dp[i-2] + uniq[i]*count[uniq[i]] , dp[i-1])
            else:
                dp[i] = dp[i-1] + uniq[i] * count[uniq[i]]
            
        return dp[-1]
       

```
- code
```py
class Solution:
    def deleteAndEarn(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        count = Counter(nums) # value, count
        
        last = -1 # check if v is next to last value
        two_step_before = one_step_before = cur = 0 # result so far
        for v in sorted(count):
            if v == last + 1:
                cur = max(two_step_before + v * count[v] , one_step_before)
            else:
                cur = one_step_before + v * count[v]
            two_step_before, one_step_before, last = one_step_before, cur, v
            
            
        return cur
```
